# Chilkat Lake Sockeye Salmon Escapement Goal Analysis
Chilkat Lake is located in the Chilkat River drainage, approximately 43 river km upstream from the city of Haines, Alaska. The lake supports one of the region’s larger sockeye salmon runs, which is harvested primarily in the District 15 Lynn Canal commercial drift gillnet fishery. Escapements have been variously estimated through weir counts (1967–1995, 1999–2007), mark–recapture estimates (1994–2016), and dual-frequency identification sonar (DIDSON), which has been used as the primary assessment method since 2008 (Eggers et al. 2010; Bednarski et al. 2017).

##Escapement Goals and Stock Status: 
Prior to 1990, the Chilkat Lake sockeye salmon run was managed for informal escapement goals of 60,000–70,000 fish (1976–1980) and 70,000–90,000 fish (1981–1989) (Bergander et al. 1988). In 1990, a biological escapement goal range of 52,000–106,000 sockeye salmon was established (with separate goals for early and late runs), based on a stock-recruit analysis (McPherson 1990). Later efforts to update the escapement goal were hindered by concerns regarding accuracy of weir counts and lake stocking of sockeye salmon fry in the 1990s, which at the time caused severe declines in zooplankton populations (Geiger et al. 2005). In 2006, the existing goal was converted into mark–recapture units and revised to a sustainable escapement goal range of 80,000–200,000 sockeye salmon (Geiger et al. 2005). In 2009, the goal was revised to the current biological escapement goal range of 70,000–150,000 sockeye salmon, based on an auto-regressive stock-recruit model with weir counts scaled to mark–recapture estimates and a fry plant term to account for bias due to added production from fry stocking (Eggers et al. 2008, 2010). 

Following comprehensive review of historical stock assessment data (Bednarski et al. 2017), the escapement goal analysis was updated using age-structured state-space stock-recruit models to better account for multiple overlapping methods of escapement enumeration and missing data (Miller and Heinl 2018). DIDSON escapement counts were treated as the ‘true’ counts and weir counts and mark–recapture estimates of escapement were treated as indices of escapement in the state-space models. Resulting parameter estimates from this analysis were very similar to those estimated by Eggers et al. (2010). The probability of achieving 90% of maximum sustained yield (MSY) over the entire current escapement goal range was estimated to average 65% and was maximized (near 84% probability) at the spawning escapement estimated to provide MSY (98,000 fish). These probabilities improved to 82% and 94%, respectively, with respect to achieving 80% of MSY (Miller and Heinl 2018). As a result, the escapement goal review committee recommended maintaining the current biological escapement goal of 70,000–150,000 sockeye salmon counted with the DIDSON system at the Chilkat Lake weir site (Heinl et al. 2017). From 2015 to 2019, escapements were within or above the escapement goal range in each year.

##References:


